Add `baffling-birthdays` exercise (#2539)
exercism/problem-specifications: exercises/baffling-birthdays/instructions.md

# Instructions

> Your task is to implement a solution that verifies the Birthday Paradox's probabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your task is to verify the Birthday Paradox's probabilities.
```

> Your task is to implement a solution that verifies the Birthday Paradox's probabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your task is to implement a solution that verifies the birthday paradox's probabilities.
```

This isn’t a proper noun as far as I can tell, and Wikipedia doesn’t capitalize it either.

To do this, you need to:

> - Determine if two birthdates match (same month and day).

Reviewer 3: This is slightly misleading. Two birthdates match if they have the same month, day, year. Same month and day isn't necessarily a match.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Determine if two birthdates have the same month and day.
```

- Generate random birthdates.
- Check if a set of randomly generated birthdates contains at least one matching pair.

> - Calculate the probability of at least one match for different group sizes.

Reviewer 4: "Calculate" sounds like "Find the an analytical solution", which can easily be done for this problem. I think you could use "Estimate" instead if you want .

(and just for fun, let me see if I can find the solution)
The probability of at least one match in N people is 1 minus the probability of no match at all.
The probability to pick a different date N times in a pool of D (365) days is:
$1 * (D-1)/D * (D-2)/D * ... * (D-N+1)/D = D!/N!/D^N$
(first pick is guaranteed, second pick only has D-1 choices, etc)
that's if N <= D, if N > D, the probability is 0.

Author: Fair point! I'll update

~~~~exercism/caution
The Birthday Paradox assumes that birthdays are uniformly distributed within a single year.

> While the year should vary between different random birthdate generation calls, all birthdates within a single call must share the same year.

Reviewer 4: We might also want to address leap years. The probability to be born on Feb 29 is 4(ish) time smaller than other dates, which changes the probability ever so slightly. I'd suggest adding that we can also assume that a year is 365 days.

Author: Good point.

Author: I've updated. Could you check if it is okay now?

Reviewer 4: The "no leap year" line works, but I don't understand the point of "While the year should vary between different random birthdate generation calls, all birthdates within a single call _must_ share the same year.". Is this to further avoid leap year issues? If so, maybe it would work better to do filter out any Feb29s, or ask not generate them at all. Or we could leave it to the students to figure out how to avoid leap years.

# Instructions

Your task is to estimate the birthday paradox's probabilities.

To do this, you need to:

- Determine if two birthdates have the same month and day.
- Generate random birthdates.

> - Check if a collection of randomly generated birthdates contains at least one matching pair.

Reviewer 3: This still talks about "matching birthdays", but we haven't defined what matching means. How about something similar to L7
```suggestion
- Check if a collection of randomly generated birthdates contains any two with the same month and day.
```

> - Estimate the probability of at least one match for different group sizes.

Reviewer 3: This is asking for the `probabilityForMatchingBirthdays`, right? I think can be rephrased so that it's more straightforward and clear.
```suggestion
- Estimate the probability that at least two people in a group share the same birthday (month and day) for different group sizes.
```

> - Determine if two birthdates have the same month and day.
> - Generate random birthdates.
> - Check if a collection of randomly generated birthdates contains any two with the same month and day.
> - Estimate the probability that at least two people in a group share the same birthday (month and day) for different group sizes.

Author: I feel that it is confusing _not_ to mention birthday, as it _is_ the birthday paradox after all. Maybe we can either explain it in parentheses:

```suggestion
- Determine if two birthdates (day/month/year) have the birthday (day/month).
- Generate random birthdates.
- Check if a collection of randomly generated birthdates contains any two with the same birthday.
- Estimate the probability that at least two people in a group share the same birthday for different group sizes.
```

or  else maybe use superscripts:

```suggestion
- Determine if two birthdates¹ have the birthday².
- Generate random birthdates.
- Check if a collection of randomly generated birthdates contains any two with the same birthday.
- Estimate the probability that at least two people in a group share the same birthday for different group sizes.

¹ A birthdate is the combination of day, month, and year
² A birthday is the combination of day and month
```

or something similar.

Reviewer: Rather than making these definitions footnotes, can we explicitly define, at the top of the instructions, how we intend these terms to be used/understood?

Reviewer 3: I think the instructions are fine as they are. The only thing i would add is a note (maybe an exercism note) right after the bullets.

`Note: A birthdate includes the full date of birth (year, month, and day), whereas a birthday refers only to the month and day, which repeat each year. Two birthdates with the same month and day correspond to the same birthday.`

Author: I've updated

# Instructions

Your task is to estimate the birthday paradox's probabilities.

To do this, you need to:

> - Determine if two birthdates have the same month and day.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: I think it's fine to leave this one in.
